hi everyone Laszlo Montgomery again in
this China history podcast episode we
will examine part one of a special
three-part series covering the life of
Sir Edmund Trelawney back house 2nd
baronet before I begin and we'll start
going on like I do allow me to admit to
you that prior to 2013 if I had read
about Edmund Backhouse the name didn't
stick with me and if you further permit
me to sound like the shameless
name-dropper that I am one evening at
Kaiser Klaus place very late kaiser told
me about Backhouse and in the course of
the introduction he told me about the
one particular story that perhaps
backhouses most famous for we'll get to
that in a minute I have to admit I felt
a little taken aback you know in the
world of China history podcasting I was
quite well known and established yet how
did I get this far in life and not hear
of Edmund Backhouse or this totally
outrageous story so as soon as I got
back to my hotel that night I had to
look him up and sure enough just as
Kaiser said I added Backhouse to the
list of topics and figured when the time
came I'll think of some tasteful way to
present his life from the moment
foreigners began running amok in China
after the opium wars there have been a
galaxy of Westerners that have played
their roles big and small on the China
stay and continue to this very day some
we remember some we forget and most
despite the great things they've done we
never heard of I've featured a few of
these Westerners in China as past topics
and I still have a lot of these people
queued up for later
China history podcast episodes today we
look at Backhouse Sir Edmund Trelawney
Backhouse we remember Sir Edmund for
several things all of which we'll look
at in this episode but I guess his most
famous claim to fame has to be the
salacious pornographic hundred and fifty
thousand word memoir he left behind in
1943 as he lay dying at cent Michel
hospital in Beijing there's this book
written by an author
in 1999 in Gary Jennings it's called the
journeyer it's an historical novel about
Marco Polo's journey to China I
mentioned this book I think in the CHP
ten episode on Kublai Khan basically the
book opens up with Marco Polo on his
deathbed being pressed to recant all
these stories he told in the book of his
travels that he collaborated with
Rustichello and Marco Polo replied that
he hadn't even told half of what really
happened on those travels to and from
Yoren Dynasty China from 1276 to 1291
so the journeyer then goes on to tell
the real story of Marco Polo's travels
to the east book is just fantastic one
of my all-time faves well it's almost
but not quite the same thing as this as
he lay dying in the hospital in his
final year of life back house was
encouraged by the man caring for him a
Swiss doctor and diplomat Reinhard herb
Lee to write down all these amazing and
fantastical stories Backhouse had been
telling him he proceeded to do so and
the resulting manuscript was entitled
décadas ma Shu the China memoirs of Sir
Edmund Trelawney back house her plea
didn't have to read more than a few
pages into the first chapter which opens
up in a gay brothel to know that 1943
was a little too early for this kind of
writing he buried the manuscript for a
while and decided to wake things out see
how the world advanced or degraded
before these memoirs would see the light
of day his man not mortal well her plea
was when he knew the jig was up and he
could hear the footsteps of disease and
old age coming up the stairwell he
delivered the manuscript to the boat
lien library at Oxford and to a well
respected experts in these matters the
english historian hugh trevor-roper
the upshot her plea revealing this
journal to trevor-roper can now be found
in two main books the first is Hugh
trevor-roper
1976 biography of Backhouse entitled
hermit of Peking the hidden life of
Edmund Backhouse the other is this
pornographic memoir decadence ma shoe
which in French translates to Manchu
decadence Bob Guccione Smoothie Caligula
was like watering Heights compared to
this story and if you want to get your
hands on your own personal copy the
venerable and respected publishing house
of Earnshaw books where quality books on
China and Beyond can be found he has
published this work for all the curious
to read and enjoy check them out at
www.thekingofrandom.com pan Yin
Backhouse was a very good writer in the
Victorian style so it's really a trip to
be reading such smut but in this very
respectable Victorian English sprinkled
prodigiously with French Latin and
Chinese if graphic porn isn't your thing
then you can give this book a pass but
if that kind of stuff doesn't bother you
too bad it's an amazing read it's so far
out to read this and think man this is
1943 and even back then people wrote
stuff like this so the back house affair
with sushi as his memoirs
Marky's story but there's more to it
than that actually that aspect of
backhouses life only came at the very
end of the end as he lay dying after a
long and interesting life
prior to decadence my shoe there was a
whole incredible and crazy life that was
lived in China before his end came in
January 1944 so let's look at the whole
long and complicated story of Sir Edmund
Trelawney beca's his fascinating story
told against the backdrop of China
between the four and a half decades from
1898 1943 we've looked at this period in
many CHP past episodes that the Ching
dynasty series the aftermath of the
Shanghai revolution the may 4th movement
founding of the CCP
China in the early 1920s the Shanghai
Massacre Sir Robert Hart China and Japan
1895 1945 the warlord mozz Carl Crowe
and that moisture cone episode 2 this
was the time of the Empress Dowager Tzu
she and the Guangxu Emperor the first
and second sino-japanese war the hundred
days of reform Kang yo way you insure
Chi the Boxer Rebellion the torching of
the Summer Palace Luo Chun uprising the
end of the ching japanese invasion the
Warlord's the rise of Sun Qiang ma all
these events were playing in the
background
well Backhouse was doing his thing in
China Sir Edmund if you didn't guess it
came from a nice rich aristocratic
family but he was the black sheep of the
family and as soon as he was old enough
his father got rid of him and made him a
remittance man someone who lived off the
remittances from home paid by the
paterfamilias to keep the near do well
son as far away from the family as
possible so while he came from money
once he left England in 1898 his
father's generosity till his dying day
never rose beyond the barest absolute
minimum backhouses relationship with his
mother was horrible and they both
couldn't stand each other why did his
family despise himself let me quote from
sterling Seagraves 1992 work dragon lady
the life and legend of the last Empress
of China Seagrave wrote
they all hated him because not only was
Edmund a liar a cheat and a thief but at
the same time ostentatiously homosexual
a combination that seems to have been a
bit more than his parents could handle
none of these attributes was unusual
among his contemporaries singly or in
combination but Edmund had the
additional disadvantage of being
functionally insane he was brilliant but
highly unstable a true exotic with an
extraordinary fantasy world and long
bouts of psychotic depression he was
born in 1873 in Richmond Yorkshire his
father was Sir Jonathan Backhouse and
his mother Florence Salas buri Trelawney
hence his name Trelawny Backhouse he
attended schools at st. George's Ascot
Winchester College and then on to Oxford
he studied at Oxford but never received
his degree he dropped out of Oxford in
the summer of 1895 Seagrave further said
quote Edmund Backhouse was the
brilliantly flawed product of an unhappy
childhood although his younger brothers
became soldiers and admirals Edmund was
a bad seed the despair of his mother and
father he particularly loved his mother
Florence conceiving a great pouch of
venom he later vented on the Dowager
Empress at Oxford he squandered his
inheritance trying to join Oscar Wilde
circle of homosexuals then fled England
and bankruptcy to appear in Peking one
day in early 1899 this was right after
the Treaty of Shimonoseki had been
signed ending the first sino-japanese
war things were now really hiding up in
China the Empress Dowager than in power
for 34 years already ever since the
death of her husband the Shen Fung
Emperor in 1861 so early 1899 at one of
Sir Robert hearts long parties faked
delivered 26 year-old Edmund Backhouse
into the hands of one of the great
characters of late 19th century early
20th century journalism in China the
Australian dr. George Ernest Morrison
aka Morrison of Peking and in the
fashion of Charles George Gordon he was
also known as Chinese Morrison
he was the Beijing correspondent for The
Times now part of Rupert Murdoch's News
UK subsidiary he was the top journalist
of his day and in 1897 The Times first
full-time correspondent based in Beijing
Morrison knew how to write a good story
and like Wang Ching foo from the last
CHP episode he sometimes didn't allow
facts to get in the way of his stories
he wasn't uh William Randolph Hearst
type but I guess you could say he was
cut from the same or similar cloth he
was like Teddy Roosevelt he was an
adventurer a tough guy an intimidating
guy his presence would light up and
dominate a room but he had one
shortcoming even though he was this big
fish in Beijing he didn't speak Chinese
so you can imagine what a handicap this
would be he was totally dependent on
others that he didn't trust can't he
have everything translated and
interpreted but despite all this within
a few years as The Times Beijing
correspondent he was a major figure in
the expat community
just before Backhouse hooked up with
Morrison of Peking and became his boy
young admin first applied to work as an
interpreter at China Imperial customs
this meant yet to first interview
personally with Sir Robert Hart's who we
introduced in CHP episode 58 Backhouse
came with very nice letters of
recommendation but despite all that Sir
Robert Hart didn't let him in so having
so having failed to enter China Imperial
customs Backhouse had to look elsewhere
and fortune matched him up with Morris
and a Peking back house was a godsend
what else is there to say his collective
linguistic skills and insight into Ching
dynasty politics made morrison shine
like never before at the times morrison
was more of a patron to Backhouse than
an employer as a story goes Morrison
didn't pay back house anything but he
took care of
so much did Morrison rely on back house
for all his dispatches to London that
was hard to tell where one began and the
other ended back house was invaluable
and Morrison knowing this was extreme in
his possessiveness of Backhouse at any
time he felt someone was moving in on
him to take Backhouse away or distract
his Backhouse from anything except
translating and helping him write his
stories Morrison didn't like it and
Morrison of Peking swung a big bat and
no one liked to mess with him in April
of 1899 Backhouse was bit by a dog and
Morrison sent him to Shanghai for
treatment there in Shanghai he was
introduced to another of the main
characters of our story this was John
Otway Percy bland Jo P bland 1863 to
1945 bland was one of Robert Hart's gang
at customs and worked for him for many
years rising up to be the great man's
private secretary at hearts bland was a
writer and though he had this long
career in customs and the civil service
in China it was writing that getting
pleasure bland and Backhouse became
close almost at once
Morrison hated bland and resented his
collaboration with Backhouse later on
Morrison will act as the overt black
hand to get rid of bland after bland
moved up to Beijing and began
freelancing for the times in direct
competition with Morrison and as the
story goes bland couldn't remind
Morrison enough about his shortcomings
you know being unable to speak Mandarin
and that he bland could Backhouse in the
meantime by early 1900 was living with
one GPP chi an eccentric lad and chased
out of britain's consular service over
an affair with a married woman it said
they lived in a house in an outlying
village and around that time the two
disappeared for a nine week adventure
traveling around Mongolia they returned
to Beijing just in time for the Boxer
Rebellion like
most all foreigners back house and
peachy ran straight to the legation
corridor and hunkered down with the rest
of the law wise Backhouse survived the
Boxer Rebellion and emerged with all the
other foreigners when it was all over to
ventilate all the foreigners went on a
rampage looting anything that wasn't
bolted or cemented to the ground
Edmund Backhouse helped himself to the
recent and suddenly vacated home of a
king court official named jing shan he
was a manchu scholar and a Klansman of
sushi who served as the assistant
secretary of the imperial household not
a particularly high rank but enough of
an insider to know everything that was
going on inside the sanctum sanctorum of
Qing Imperial China in August 1980
around the time the Boxer Rebellion
ended 78 year-old jing shan was murdered
by his own son and it was three days
after that back house moved into Ching
chongs house there one of the defining
moments in the life of Edmund Backhouse
happened he found a diary the diary of
his excellency jing shan in the decades
to follow the yin and the yang of
delight and disappointment over this
jing shan diary will keep rearing its
head all the way until backhouse
breathes his last in 1944
you see no one was actually standing
right there with a GoPro or iPhone handy
to record the moment but back house to
his dying day will claim that he found
the diary kept it secret from everyone
and slowly translated it between 1999
and that his translation was absolutely
faithful to the original document he
found Backhouse was completely fluent in
both Mandarin and Manchu so he was
totally qualified to perform this
translation will come back to this jing
shan diary again and again in this story
Backhouse had a pretty good run after
the Boxer Rebellion it was a whole new
dynamic now in Beijing once the box our
protocol was signed the relationship
between the foreign powers and the Qin
government became even more
symbiotic than ever after sushi and her
court returned to the palace in
September 1901 the Chinese government
was told to behave and the foreign
powers investigated ways for the
government to pay up this indemnity that
far exceeded the Treasury's annual
revenue in China's century of
humiliation they couldn't get any worse
than this
the following year in 1902 back house
along with several others salvaged many
treasures from the looted summer palace
and well facilitated their return to the
Forbidden City this act of honesty and
kindness brought back house to the
attention of two of the three most
powerful people in the ching imperial
court this was of course sushi and the
chief eunuch and perhaps the best-known
imperial eunuch of all time li lianying
in 1903 Backhouse took a position at the
institution that became Peking
University and say professor of law and
literature they taught there for a
period of about 10 years however during
this period his main attention was paid
to serving Morrison as principal
translator and aid to cam in 1904 Rome
Lou died I've mentioned it before he was
the Viceroy of Cheerilee among many
other titles but more importantly he was
she's cousin Western history hasn't been
particularly kind to Rome Lou pointing
out that he was the key person and the
conservative faction in the government
it's also said he was all for the
killing of the foreigners when the Boxer
Rebellion reached a fever pitch
later on scholars will produce documents
showing Ron Lou actually helped save the
foreigners but he was anti reformed and
was principally responsible for Khan
Yahweh's failure during the hundred days
reform but for the purposes of our
little Backhouse story wrong Lou led the
troops who in 1861 put the Empress
dowager's she in charge of things and
was also rumored to have been so she's
lover or one of her lover's officially
Ron Lou was the commander-in-chief of
the armed forces grand councilor ants
closest advisor more of that later it
was at this time with the passing of ROM
Lu where Backhouse claims that he first
came to the attention of the old Buddha
as she was called around this time
Morrison had written to bland saying of
Backhouse he quote now speaks Mangal but
the greatest fluency and will quickly
have mastered Manchu speaking it reading
it writing it no one in Peking
approaches him in the ease with which he
can translate Chinese unquote when a new
British Minister the noted Chetan
ologist earnest Saito arrived on the
scene of Beijing
Backhouse made himself useful to him as
a translator of documents Morrison
wasn't paying back house any kind of
salary so he had to resort to all these
consulting jobs doing mostly translation
work and jobs that utilized his Chinese
expertise
Backhouse made his first trip back to
England in 1906 whether or not he was
actually in poor health we'll never know
but Backhouse was one of the great
hypochondriacs of his age he not only
imagined illnesses but feigned them as
well using poor health or some chronic
ailment as an excuse for some matter or
non performance of duties by 1908 things
were pretty strained between Morrison
and Backhouse they grew very close after
working together like they did I would
say they both knew each other pretty
well and Morrison it seems had figured
stuff out about Backhouse that others
failed to see that was what everyone
said decades later after all the smoke
cleared and the fog lifted from the life
of Edmund Backhouse only Morrison got
him right Morrison as we'll see in a bit
spewed plenty of hate in backhouses
direction but he never took him down all
the way after all Backhouse also had
plenty of dirt on Morrison as well and
could have bloodied him too if it came
to that but Morrison of Peking that
giant in his day he knew all about the
dark side of Backhouse and what he was
capable of as his resentment of Morrison
students
his mind Backhouse began to get closer
to Jo P bland these were two kindred
spirits and the scholarly sense after
bland moved to Beijing in 1907 the two
began to run into each other more often
and whatever Morrison would see them
together he'd fly into a rage or grumble
and you'll make some mental note of it
in bland Morrison saw a potential rival
in Morrison bland saw nothing but a
cold-blooded imperialist and someone who
stood for everything he couldn't stand
about the foreigners presence in China
who would get to control Backhouse was a
real point of contention between these
two morrison was as much a seeker of
adventure as he was a foreign
correspondent
he would always wander off on these
incredible adventures and tricks out to
wild untamed places in 1908 he was off
on one of these adventures when in
November of that year sue she died she
had been an unchallenged power in China
for 46 years actually she was always
challenged but she kept all contenders
at bay or killed them it was a shocker
of all shockers when she died suddenly
on November 13th two days before she
died
Sue's she had without warning changed
the heir to the throne to be the eldest
son of Prince twin seventh son of the
doll Quang Emperor Prince John was a
half-brother to the shim Fung Emperor
husband of Sushi the mother of this new
heir Puyi was wrong Lou's daughter so he
was totally legit and from the same clan
as sushi to boot so pooi the famous last
emperor of John lone Bernardo Bertolucci
Fame out of nowhere on November 13th has
made the year the next day on the 14th
the Guangxu Emperor died mysteriously
followed up in less than 24 hours by the
death of the empress dowager herself and
when all this went down in 1908 morrison
was out of town and missed the whole
thing
bland could have scooped morrison but he
who was incapacitated unable to rise
from his bed Hugh trevor-roper wrote
quote in such an concurrence of
accidents only Backhouse Morrison's
expert the real writer of so much of
Morrison's dispatches could save the
reputation of the times unquote
so Backhouse wrote an entire account of
what went down in Beijing during those
72 hours he gave his draft bland who
polished it up and put his silky touch
to the story then they sent it on to the
head office and from that accidental
collaboration that came about because of
a sudden turn of events the Backhouse
and bland relationship began this would
be a long-lasting partnership although
there was a long period of no contact
towards the autumn of their years Mike
Adams and Jefferson they kept up a
healthy correspondence late in life
you'll see through backhouses life
especially where Westerners were
concerned
none of the friendships he had were long
lasting with Jo people and there was an
exception Backhouse wrote too bland
quote I cannot help feeling that the
Empress dowager's decease however
lamentable in other respects was a lucky
event for me in that it gave me the
chance of being privileged to make your
acquaintance unquote shortly after the
death of sushi Backhouse began to do
some work on the side for Lord French
and Irish pair who worked as an agent
for the British Rail Road construction
firm Pauling and company I love this
guy's name his surname was French
that's lowercase double F French not
capital F re n CH double F and lowercase
wow I just thought that was so far out
Backhouse went to work for French as a
general China a specialist and was told
to keep his eyes and ears open for
anything political that might be useful
to pass on Backhouse was a shameless
name-dropper just like me with Kaiser
Gua he'd go on endlessly about all the
people he knew at the Manchu court no
doubt he was very familiar with many
Chinese and Beijing but he'd make a big
deal about knowing guys like me I'm sure
ye major political animal of his day and
big-time financier he also claimed
another grand Secretary of the
Kord shoe sure Chang no one could
validate half the stuff he said and if
he tried there would be smoke and
mirrors everywhere he was such a
respectable looking chap terribly polite
and knew how to turn on the charm and
the extent of his linguistic skills and
the scholarship were already well known
in certain circles of the expat
community so no one suspected that you
know he was blowing the bulb when he
claimed to know all kinds of personas
phimosis Lord French was sufficiently
satisfied with Backhouse to offer him a
position at his firm Pauling and company
so Backhouse started working for French
there was another member of this trio
this was Willard Strait
he was Morgan and Harriman's guy and
China they were financing some of these
railroad deals in China Strait was very
close to bland so Strait French and
backhouse begin to hang out a lot
together during this period occasionally
Backhouse would earn a little chicken
scratch doing some work on the side for
straight as well
Lord French was thinking having an
expert China hand at his beck and call
would prove to be invaluable in reading
the oracle bones and in gaining an
insight track over the competition
so Backhouse began to hang out with this
crowd who gave him a little taste of the
world of international trade and big
business this excited back house and he
fancied himself you know a bit of a
mover and shaker this new position
working for French like anything else he
had done up till now he insisted be kept
private he was petrified that Morrison
might find out he didn't want any
trouble he was always trying to keep his
outside affair secret from Morrison you
know someone who made it his business to
know everything that was going on in
Beijing right about this time Backhouse
was going to do something that is going
to earn him everlasting enmity from
Morrison he's gonna go behind Morrison's
back and collaborate with his rival Jo P
bland and together these two scholars
will produce two books that will stun
the world of history and Synology these
two books were China under the Empress
Dowager
published in 1910 and annals and memoirs
of the court of Peking published in 1914
both were big hits and the main source
material that produced the most
sensational revelations and memorable
passages from the book was this jing
shan diary that back house had
discovered in Jing Sean's house right at
the close of the Boxer Rebellion
remember that in august of nineteen ten
after keeping it hidden Backhouse had
sent it to bland when he was in London
and after bland had read it and had been
suitably blown away bland deposited the
papers with the British Museum for
safekeeping
this jingshan diary was quite a find
Backhouse had kept this thing under
wraps for all these years never told
Morrison for that he'd get on Chinese
Morrison's you-know-what list and stayed
there till Morrison kicked the bucket in
1920 and if Morrison ran into Backhouse
in the after lies he probably still held
this against him this was a double
whammy to Morris and not only had
Backhouse kept this sensational diary
from him all these years
but he took it to his rival bland
instead and collaborated with the enemy
up until this point in time when
Backhouse produced the Jean Jean diary
historians were still scratching their
heads about what all went down inside
the top palace leadership at the moment
of crisis during and right after the
Boxer Rebellion who was lined up on what
side who said what this diary was like a
tell-all book that just how did the
entire manchu royal family back in the
early 1900s when books were the TMZ of
their day all the revelations contained
in this diary really rocked not only the
small world of sinologists everywhere
but even popular society as well the
Empress Dowager was quite a character
and so little was known about her and
how she was laid bare for all to see and
she had already passed from this earth
and couldn't refute a thing 1909-1910
Backhouse spent a lot of time and
Scotland in England during his stop in
Londyn Backhouse popped into the head
office at Pauling and company engaged in
a spot of office politics and went
behind French's back and cut a nice deal
for himself when French found out he was
livid and their relationship suffered
then time French was able to get rid of
Backhouse and he soon left the employ of
Pauling and he didn't just piss off
French did the same thing to willard
straight and after these two small but
steady streams of income dried up
Backhouse began to sweat it he was one
of those guys who was always short of
funds because of his skillset he was
quite useful to some people who paid him
for his expertise but it didn't all add
up to a lot
he was always lamenting about his
finances then came this XI book
Backhouse had written to bland quote if
you had time to compose the narrative I
could supply the translations in a
certain amount of personal anecdote as
well which you could embellish with your
style unquote as things progressed bland
was humbly insistent that this was all
backhouses book and he was merely adding
a little color it was very sincere in
his letters about this so sensational
and amazing were the translations
Backhouse was providing bland was
feeling his role as merely the packager
and editor and this was really nothing
compared with that Backhouse was
contributing not only did Backhouse have
the jingzhong diary he had gotten his
hands on a slew of Imperial edicts and
other palace documents when Backhouse
went to London in April 1909 he popped
in to visit the proposed publisher of
this first book with bland bland had
written to this publisher William
Heinemann and said this about Backhouse
he quote is very shy and nervous and
horribly afraid of publishers and
businessman generally being imbued with
the philosophic attitudes of the early
Song Dynasty but perhaps you may be able
to lure him to a meeting and thus see a
sample of his work which is certain to
create a sensation of the biggest kind
unquote
bland only knew just on the strength of
that jingchun diary alone Heinemann was
sold after others all around London
turned it down he agreed to be the
publisher then Backhouse did this
complete about-face and started to make
a real big deal too bland about taking
his name off and that it should only be
by bland no back house showing anywhere
bland was already quite aware of
backhouses eccentricities and was an old
hand when it came to dealing with
backhouses erratic and capricious
behavior bland kept assuring Backhouse
there was no way with this great
contribution that he made that his name
should be taken off bland knew he didn't
deserve it alone Backhouse was the key
and the driving force bland just made it
all readable Backhouse even insisted to
sell all his rights away taking 200
pounds from bland and selling him his
entire interest in the book should it
make anything the book ended up making
plenty and bland even though he
technically didn't have to was a total
sport about it and faithfully paid all
money's due to Backhouse all the way up
to 1917 when they parted ways for a
while Backhouse almost got his way to
make JLP bland the sole author but in
the end Heineman made that call and in
October 1910 China under the Empress
Dowager hit the shelves 8 editions
printed in 18 months was a total and
complete hits and international hit made
a lot of money and Backhouse was able to
breathe easy for a bit the timing for
this book to come out was impeccable
merely two years after the death of
sushi and a year before the walls came
tumbling down in the Forbidden City with
the Xin hai Revolution people were just
blown away by this book the detail the
revelations made the way it brought you
right inside the walls and palaces of
the Forbidden City trevor-roper said
quote what bland and backhouse supplied
was the first documented and readable
public account of the whole reign it was
compiled from authentic Chinese sources
supplied and translated by the profound
scholar back house but addressed to a
literate English public
by the fluent and efficient journalist
bland no other work presents so clear a
picture of the decadent Manchu court
with its archaic etiquette it's
universal corruption it's impossible
dilemmas or the masterful Nero single
mindedness egotism of its illegitimate
but irremovable ruler unquote the Chang
Shan diary was the centerpiece of the
whole thing without that the book would
have fallen flat there would have been
no book thanks to the diary all the
inner workings of the court were
revealed as you turn the pages you
became a fly on the wall inside the
palace watching all the main cast of
characters play their role in those
Boxer Rebellion days who said what who
lined up against the foreigners up until
this book came out wrong Liu had always
been considered the bad guy during the
Boxer Rebellion he was in charge of the
Imperial Army that turned on the foreign
Legation complex but Backhouse said that
was all wrong during the time of the
boxers role Liu had tried his best to
stop them and to reason with them so we
went from being a bad guy to a good guy
not only that the Diaries have revealed
that wrong loot was pro-west yeah he
came out smelling quite fragrant the
real bad guy in this book was the
Empress Dowager
she got skewered oh yes everything that
she became notorious for grew out of his
book her anti-west politics or
ruthlessness how she sided with the
boxers fought tooth and nail against
reform this stigma has stuck to the
Empress Dowager all the way into our
modern times and in the West at all
mostly grew out of this book so much
negative did backhouse reveal from the
II Ching Shan diary he began to fear
reprisals from the Manchu court and he
was correct in his thinking upon hearing
about this book and learning of its
contents everyone of the palace was
livid this book by Backhouse and bland
really kicked up but you know what storm
inside the Chinese government no one was
amused and they hated that all this got
out like my unedited version of that
function foo episode the new Empress
Dowager says she's nice loooong you was
especially incensed at this diary
because the author's had the audacity to
call her unattractive so back house was
flooded with self-doubt and didn't want
to have his name on the title page and
he got all paranoid about repercussions
from Manchu officials but when an
apprehensive Backhouse arrived back in
Beijing the Imperial Household had
bigger troubles to deal with them
getting even with Edmond Backhouse he
would have stayed away even further but
Sir Jonathon Backhouse pulled a few
strings and lined up a job for his son
with the naval ship manufacturer John
Brown limited this was a very
respectable job with a respectable firm
and Backhouse had to get back to Beijing
to start working for them with the
success of the first book China under
the Empress Dowager work began on a
prequel but before that would be
published Backhouse was going to start
making a name for himself as a patron of
Oxford's bought lien library that's for
next episode we'll put the bookmark in
here and in the next episode we will
look at part two of the life of Sir
Edmond Backhouse until then this is
Lazlo Montgomery wishing you the very
best thanking you for your listenership
and I hope you'll come back next time
for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast